# iCLEF: Interactive Cross Language Evaluation Forum

[iCLEF](http://nlp.uned.es/iCLEF) is the interactive track of CLEF (Cross-Language Evaluation Forum), an 
annual evaluation exercise for Multilingual Information Access systems. In
iCLEF, Cross-Language search capabilities are studied from a user-inclusive
perspective. A central research question is how best to assist users when
searching information written in unknown languages, rather than how best an
algorithm can find information written in languages different from the query
language.

Since 2006, iCLEF has moved from news collections (a standard for text
retrieval experiments) in order to explore user behaviour in a collection where
the cross-language search necessity arises more naturally for average users. We
chose Flickr, a large-scale, web-based image database based on a large social
network of WWW users, with the potential for offering both challenging and
realistic multilingual search tasks for interactive experiments.

Over the last years, iCLEF participants have typically designed one or more
cross-language search interfaces for tasks such as document retrieval, question
answering or text-based image retrieval. Interfaces were studied and compared
using controlled user populations under laboratory conditions. The main novelty
since the iCLEF 2008 track is focusing on the shared analysis of a medium/large
search log from a single search interface provided by the iCLEF organizers
(i.e. our current focus is on log analysis, rather than on system design).
FlickLing has been the search interface provided by iCLEF organizers consisting
of a basic cross-language retrieval system for the Flickr image database. We
presented it as an online game with a clear goal: the user is given a target
image, and she must find it again without any a priori knowledge of the
language(s) in which the image is annotated.

The log files generated during the last two campaigns and other associated data
are freely available.
